---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
---

This is a selection of projects that I worked on or founded myself during the
last 4 years.

### Employee/freelancer (via [Plict](http://www.plict.nl))

#### 2014 - 2015: Data warehouse developer at [Blendle](https://blendle.com) (Utrecht, NL)

In March 2014 I started working full-time at the promising Dutch start-up
Blendle. I took a break from studying to gain experience with working in a small
team and a high-pressure environment. This was especially true because I joined
a month before the official launch in the Netherlands. Designing and building
our data warehouse is now my primary task, although I started as a 'workflow
developer' (PDF/XML conversion). After my first year I returned to university in
April 2015. From that point on I worked part-time until August 2015.

![Blendle Team](/images/blendle_team.jpg)

#### 2013 - present: ERT at [AMC](http://www.amc.nl) [Intensive Care](https://www.amc.nl/web/Zorg/Patient/Opname-voor-meerdere-dagen/Intensive-Care-Unit.htm) (Amsterdam, NL)

ERT is an acronym for Education Registration Tool. Intensive care nurses of the
Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam register to the courses they are interested
in. Managers verify that the course has been taken by the nurse. The tool
replaced an offline whiteboard-based system that lacked a proper backup
strategy.

![ERT at AMC](/images/ert_amc.png)

#### 2013: Full-stack dev at [Medisas](http://medisas.com) (Mountain View, CA)

I approached Gautam Sivakumar from Medisas after reading
[his inspiring blog post](http://gs.posthaven.com/why-i-quit-medicine). About a
year later Medisas got into Y Combinator and Gautam invited me to visit Silicon
Valley. I made two weekly visits and worked on the prototype for the product, a
fantastic and very educational experience. When university and Medisas became
more demanding, I had to make a decision. In the end, I stopped working for
Medisas and focused on university.

[![Medisas website screenshot](/images/medisas_website.png)](http://medisas.com)


#### 2009 - 2010: Trainee 0x04 at [Phusion](http://www.phusion.nl) (Mostly Utrecht, NL)

During my second to last year of high school, the Phusion guys approached me
after I tweeted about their product Passenger. I was hired and appropriately
named Trainee 0x04, being the 4th employee in a tech-heavy company. Besides
learning a lot about building bigger, more serious, software projects and
working in a team, they taught me how to eat with chopsticks (shoutout
[Kyushu](http://www.kyushu.nl/)).

[![Phusion team](/images/phusion.png)](http://www.phusion.nl)

### Related to university

#### 2013 - present: Technical co-founder at [StudentResearch](https://www.studentresearch.nl)

At the start of the 3rd year of medicine, fellow medicine student Hassina
Bahadurzada asked me for help with materializing her idea: how can we connect
researchers that need help with students who want to gain experience in doing
research? Together, we turned this excellent idea into reality and called it
StudentResearch. The community of researchers and students is still growing
rapidly, and so is the amount of communication between them. A year ago, we
[received an UvA Grassroots grant](http://icto.uva.nl/icto-centraal/uva-grassroots/ter-inspiratie/ter-inspiratie/ter-inspiratie/content/folder/uitbreiding-studentresearch-kopie.html?page=2&pageSize=20),
for which the following video was made:

[![Hassina StudentResearch video](/images/studentresearch_grassroots_video.png)](http://streamingmedia.uva.nl/asset/detail/X2VWfTSK8HW8DOCcTlav1lkD)

#### 2011: [Cellular respiration simulation](http://metabolism.plict.nl)

During the metabolism course in the first year of medicine, I had the idea to
interactively explain the phosphorylation of 38 ADP into ATP in the glycolysis,
citric acid cycle and oxydative phosphorylation. It takes a little bit of time
to finish the whole dissimilation of one glucose molecule. That is why I
recorded and fast forwarded a 'run':

<iframe width="100%" height="380"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w_MUa8S17RQ" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>


### Various

#### 2015 - present: [Kriterion](http://www.kriterion.nl)

Plict built the new website of the awesome local cinema Kriterion. Kriterion and
Plict are still working together on improving the website every now and then.

[![Kriterion](/images/kriterion.png)](http://www.kriterion.nl)

#### 2014: [TicketSwap Bot](https://gist.github.com/pepijn/c683c3b26da66846dbcc)

Festivals in The Netherlands are soaring in popularity, so it can be hard to
obtain a ticket. This Bash script continuously checks the
[TicketSwap website](https://ticketswap.nl) for second-hand tickets. It was
initially used for the 2014 Dekmantel Festival, but later proved valuable in
securing access to the final Trouw parties. Especially the NYE party, which led
to an article in the local Amsterdam newspaper Parool.

[![Parool Ticketswap article](/images/parool_ticketswap.png)](http://www.parool.nl/parool/nl/12/CULTUUR/article/detail/3816986/2014/12/23/Slim-bedacht-computerprogramma-scoort-kaartjes-op-Ticketswap.dhtml)

Although TicketSwap has improved their security so the script doesn't work
anymore, you can still
[check it out on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/pepijn/c683c3b26da66846dbcc).


#### 2013: [Empty car2go spotter](http://plict.nl/car2go)

Connecting an empty car2go (<30% battery at the time) to a charging pole tops up
your account with 20 (at the time) free driving minutes. It was, however, hard
to get a good overview of all the empty cars. That is why I built this
website. The conditions have been sobered, so I do not use it anymore. It still
works though!

[![car2go Amsterdam](/images/car2go.png)](http://plict.nl/car2go)


#### 2012 - 2013: Full-stack dev at [StudySquare](https://www.studysquare.nl) (Amsterdam, NL)

Marlon, the founder of StudySquare, approached me because StudySquare, a company
that provides extra lessons for students, needed a technological revamp. We
completely rebuilt the website and backend system, which is still used by and
for a lot of students as of today. Although the day-to-day development is now in
the hands of my friends at [AJ ICT](http://www.ajict.nl), me and Marlon still do
various projects together from time to time.

[![StudySquare website screenshot](/images/studysquare.png)](https://www.studysquare.nl)

#### 2008 - present: Invoicing system for Henry de Rijk Elektrotechniek

To get paid legally for this project was the reason I officially started my own
company. Henry is an electrician and likes to specify all of the materials he
used for a job on his invoices. Because the prices of the thousands of possible
products vary over time, we thought out a way to save Henry time while creating
the invoices. The system automatically updates the prices from the wholesaler's
system, and is equipped with a fuzzy search mechanism that dramatically speeds
up the price finding.

![Henry de Rijk system screenshot](/images/henry_de_rijk_system_screenshot.png)
